README.md, before:

# ComposersDesktopProject

The [Composers Desktop Project](http://www.composersdesktop.com/) (CDP) is a software platform produced since the late 1980s by the eponymous organisation.
It is a suite of offline processes (also called CDP programs) for transforming audio files. This repository is simply a copy I made from the original source code provided
at [unstablesound.net/cdp.html](http://www.unstablesound.net/cdp.html), because I think having a navigable version of it is useful.
I am not the author of this code. The source code is released under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) v2.1.

The following changes have been made to the source code archive linked to above:

- remove `.DS_Store` OS X desktop files
- remove `~` swap files
- replace `libaaio/libaaio-0.3.1.tar.bz2` with the extracted library directory `libaaio-0.3.1`
- add `-fPIC` C-compiler flag to libraries (`dev/cdp2k`, `dev/sfsys`, `dev/externals/portsf`)
- do not include prebuilt `.a` files

## Building on Linux

Dave Phillips has written a useful text about building the project on Linux: https://www.renoise.com/blog/linux-cdp-tool-guide

Since `libaaio` is already extracted here, the preparatory steps reduce to:

```bash
cd libaaio-0.3.1
./configure --prefix=/usr/local
make
sudo make install
```

Then to build CDP itself:

```bash
cd ../dev/
./makeprograms.sh
```

### Linker problems

__Note:__ While I could build the project without modifications under Debian Jessie with gcc 4.9.2, I had issues on Debian Stretch with gcc 6.3.0.
This is with `amd64` architecture. The errors are like this:

    /usr/bin/ld: ../portaudio/lib/.libs/libportaudio.a(pa_front.o): relocation R_X86_64_32 against `.rodata.str1.8' can not be used when making a shared object; recompile with -fPIC

This goes for the three librarys `libcdp2k`, `libsfsys`, and the included portaudio.

In order to make the build work, I added `-fPIC` to the `Makefile.linux` files of the three libraries. I don't know if this has implications for compiling on other platforms.
If adding the flag breaks something for you, you might want to remove this flag again. Note that `veryclean.sh` does not delete the libraries. You have to clean them
manually, like `cd dev/cdp2k; make veryclean -f Makefile.linux`.

I am still having problems compling the following programs, due to portaudio library problem (missing `-fPIC` still):

- listaudevs
- paplay
- pvplay
- recsf

And the following programs, due to a problem wit tdelaymain and STL macros:

- reverb
- rmresp
- rmverb
- tapdelay

Commit message:

fixes issue with building tapdelay

README.md, after:

# Composers Desktop Project

The [Composers Desktop Project](http://www.composersdesktop.com/) (CDP) is a software platform produced since the late 1980s by the eponymous organisation.
It is a suite of offline processes (also called CDP programs) for transforming audio files. This repository is simply a copy I made from the original source code provided
at [unstablesound.net/cdp.html](http://www.unstablesound.net/cdp.html), because I think having a navigable version of it is useful.
I am not the author of this code. The source code is released under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL) v2.1.

The following changes have been made to the source code archive linked to above:

- remove `.DS_Store` OS X desktop files
- remove `~` swap files
- replace `libaaio/libaaio-0.3.1.tar.bz2` with the extracted library directory `libaaio-0.3.1`
- add `-fPIC` C-compiler flag to libraries (`dev/cdp2k`, `dev/sfsys`, `dev/externals/portsf`)
- do not include prebuilt `.a` files
- fix problem with multiple macro definition of `min` and `max` (collision with STL) in `dev/externals/reverb/tdelaymain.cpp`

## Building on Linux

Dave Phillips has written a useful text about building the project on Linux: https://www.renoise.com/blog/linux-cdp-tool-guide

Since `libaaio` is already extracted here, the preparatory steps reduce to:

```bash
cd libaaio-0.3.1
./configure --prefix=/usr/local
make
sudo make install
```

Then to build CDP itself:

```bash
cd ../dev/
./makeprograms.sh
```

### Linker problems

__Note:__ While I could build the project without modifications under Debian Jessie with gcc 4.9.2, I had issues on Debian Stretch with gcc 6.3.0.
This is with `amd64` architecture. The errors are like this:

    /usr/bin/ld: ../portaudio/lib/.libs/libportaudio.a(pa_front.o): relocation R_X86_64_32 against `.rodata.str1.8' can not be used when making a shared object; recompile with -fPIC

This goes for the three librarys `libcdp2k`, `libsfsys`, and the included portaudio.

In order to make the build work, I added `-fPIC` to the `Makefile.linux` files of the three libraries. I don't know if this has implications for compiling on other platforms.
If adding the flag breaks something for you, you might want to remove this flag again. Note that `veryclean.sh` does not delete the libraries. You have to clean them
manually, like `cd dev/cdp2k; make veryclean -f Makefile.linux`.

I am still having problems compling the following programs, due to portaudio library problem (missing `-fPIC` still):

- listaudevs
- paplay
- pvplay
- recsf
